---
title: 'Setting up a blog with Nuxt and Nuxt Content'
description: 'An epic journey all for the sake of writing blog posts in markdown'
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'nuxt, content, blog, vue, first post, markdown'
date: '2023-01-30'
---

This is my first post using Nuxt Content. I have been using Nuxt for my
personal website for a while, but I decided it was time to start a blog where I
can write about my projects and other things I find interesting.
<!-- more -->

## Research

The first step I took after deciding to start a blog was to find the best way to
write my posts. The first thing that came to mind was to just make a custom vue
component/page for each post. This would allow me to have full control over the
styling and layout of each post. However, I felt that the time overhead that
would introduce would lead to more time being spent writing vue components,
which would be better spent writing posts.

After some research, I found [Nuxt Content](https://content.nuxtjs.org). This
is a module for Nuxt that allows you to write your posts in markdown and have
them automatically get rendered in a vue component. This is perfect for me, as I
can spend time making the blog look nice one time, and then easily write posts
in markdown. This method also allows me to easily add the posts to git and keep
the blog content with the code, rather than having them stored somewhere else,
like in a database.

## Installation

The first step to setting up Content is to install it. Since I am adding
the blog an existing Nuxt project, I followed the instructions for adding
it to an existing project. I'll walk through what I did to set up my blog, but
you can always find the latest instructions on the Content
[getting started](https://content.nuxtjs.org/get-started) page.

First, I installed the `@nuxt/content` package using pnpm. If you are using
npm, you can replace `pnpm` with `npm` in the command below.

```bash
pnpm add @nuxt/content
```

The next step is to add the module to the `nuxt.config.ts` or `nuxt.config.js`
file. This is done by adding `@nuxt/content` to the `modules` array.

```ts
export default {
  ...
  modules: [
    '@nuxt/content'
  ]
  ...
}
```

## Setup

Now you are ready to set up the blog. This is done by creating a new directory in
the project root called `content/blog`, where all of your blog post's markdown
will be stored. You can add as many subdirectories as you want to organize your
posts. For testing purposes, I added a file called `first-post.md` to the
`content/blog` directory.

```md
---
title: 'My First Post'
description: 'This is my first post using Nuxt Content'
date: '2023-01-30'
---

This is some content for my first post.
```

The `---` at the top of the file is called the front matter, which is used to
store metadata about the post. The `title` and `description` fields are used to
set the title and description of the page, which is used by search engines and
other services. The `date` field is used to set the date of the post, which can
be used to sort the posts on the blog page. You can see more information about
the front matter in the Nuxt Content
[documentation](https://content.nuxtjs.org/guide/writing/markdown#front-matter).

The next step is to create a new page in the `pages` directory
called `blog/[...slug].vue` which is the page that will be used to display each
post. Using the `...slug` in the file name tells Nuxt to match any URL that
starts with `/blog/`. The `slug` is the name of the file without the extension,
so the URL for the `first-post.md` file would be `/blog/first-post`. You can add
the following code to the `blog/[...slug].vue` file to display the post.

```vue
<template>
<main>
  <h1>{{ page.title }}</h1>
  <p>{{ page.description }}</p>
  <ContentDoc />
</main>
</template>

<script lang="ts" setup>
const { page } = useContent()
</script>
```

The `page` variable is automatically created by the `useContent` function and
contains the front matter of the post. The `ContentDoc` component is a component
that will automatically render the markdown content of the post based on the
`slug` variable (URL).

Now, if you navigate to `/blog/first-post`, you should see the post you created.
If you want to see the list of posts when you navigate to `/blog`, you can add
the following code to the `blog/index.vue` file.

```vue
<template>
<div>
  <h1>Posts</h1>
  <ContentList v-slot="{ list }">
    <ul>
      <li v-for="post in list" :key="post.slug">
        <NuxtLink :to="post.path">{{ post.title }}</NuxtLink>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </ContentList>
</div>
</template>
```

The `ContentList` component will automatically create a list of all the posts
in the `content/blog` directory. You can then use the `list` variable to
display the posts in any way you want.

## What's Next

Now that I have a basic blog setup, I can start writing posts. I am excited to
start writing about my projects and other things I find interesting. I need to
spend some time making the blog look nice, but I think it is a good start.

If you are reading this far in the future, you will see whatever the most
up-to-date styling is, so just imagine that it looked bad when I wrote this.
Hopefully it looks decent now!

The source code for this blog and my whole personal website is available on
[GitHub](https://github.com/SquarePear/www). If you have any questions or
suggestions, feel free to open an issue or pull request!

## Final Thoughts

Nuxt Content is a great module for Nuxt.js that allows you to write your blog
posts in markdown and have them automatically get rendered in a vue component.
I am excited to be able to quickly write posts about my projects and any
interesting issues I encounter while working on them. I am also excited to be
able to keep the blog content with the code, rather than having it stored
somewhere else like in a database.
